# Combinations

Given two integers `n` and `k`, return all possible combinations of `k` numbers from 1 to n.

## Example

```
Input: n = 4, k = 2
Output:
[
  [2,4],
  [3,4],
  [2,3],
  [1,2],
  [1,3],
  [1,4],
]
```

## Solution

```javascript
/**
 * @param {number} n
 * @param {number} k
 * @return {number[][]}
 */
var combine = function(n, k) {
    if(n <= k) return [[...new Array(n).keys()].map(v => v+1)];
    var target = [];
    var dfs = function(cur, deep, tmp){
        if (tmp.length + (n - cur + 1) < k) return void 0;
        if(deep === k){
            target.push(tmp);
            return void 0;
        }
        for(;cur<=n;++cur) dfs(cur+1, deep+1, [...tmp, cur]);
    }
    dfs(1, 0, []);
    return target;
};
```

## Idea
Taking the values in the example as an example, it can be considered as an array of length `4` `[1, 2, 3, 4]`. Each pair of two forms an array. We can take `1` along with the remaining values in its array, `2` along with the remaining values in its array, `3` along with the remaining values in its array, `4` along with the remaining values in its array, which are `[1, 2]`, `[1, 3]`, `[1, 4]`, `[2, 3]`, `[2, 4]`, `[3, 4]`. First, the initial condition is judged. If `n <= k`, only an array of length `n` can be formed, which can be placed in a two-dimensional array and returned. Later, the expression uses `new Array(n)` to generate an empty array of length `n`, gets its keys iterator, and uses `...` or `Spread` operator to expand it. Then it uses `map` to process it as `key` value `+1`. After that, the target array is defined. Then the `dfs` recursion function is defined. First, pruning is performed. If the size of the current `tmp` array is `s` and the length of the undetermined interval `[cur,n]` is `t`, if `s + t < k`, even if `t` is all selected, it is not possible to construct a sequence of length `k`, so it is not necessary to continue to recurse downward in this case. Then, if the recursive depth is equal to `k`, the `tmp` array is directly placed into the target array and returned. After that, a loop is defined, and recursion is performed from `cur` to `n`. The `tmp` array and `cur` are used to form a new array to be passed to the next recursion. Then the recursion is started with `cur` initialized to `1`, `deep` to `0`, and `tmp` as an empty array. After the recursion is completed, the target array is returned.

## Daily Question

```
https://github.com/WindrunnerMax/EveryDay
```

## Reference

```
https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/combinations/
```