# Long Pressed Name
Your friend is using the keyboard to enter his name `name`. Occasionally, when the character `c` is being typed, the key may be long-pressed, and the character may be input `1` or more times.

You will check the characters entered from the keyboard `typed`. If it corresponds to a possible name of your friend's (where some characters may be long-pressed), then return `True`.

## Example

```
Input: name = "alex", typed = "aaleex"
Output: true
Explanation: 'a' and 'e' in 'alex' are long-pressed.
```

```
Input: name = "saeed", typed = "ssaaedd"
Output: false
Explanation: 'e' needs to be typed twice, but it's not in the output of 'typed'.
```

```
Input: name = "leelee", typed = "lleeelee"
Output: true
```

```
Input: name = "laiden", typed = "laiden"
Output: true
Explanation: Long pressing characters in the name is not necessary.
```

## Solution

```javascript
/**
 * @param {string} name
 * @param {string} typed
 * @return {boolean}
 */
var isLongPressedName = function(name, typed) {
    if(name === typed) return true;
    var i=0, k=0;
    var n = name.length;
    for(; i<n;){
        let char = name[i];
        if(name[i] !== typed[k]) return false;
        let catchedI = i;
        let catchedK = k;
        while(name[++i] === char);
        while(typed[++k] === char);
        if(i - catchedI > k - catchedK) return false;
    }
    if(i !== n || k !== typed.length) return false;
    return true;
};
```

## Idea
Utilizing the strategy of double pointers, set a pointer for each of the two strings, and traverse the two strings, dealing with repeated characters so that the pointer always points to the next different character. Judge whether the input has reached the sufficient quantity, and finally determine whether the strings are completely traversed. First, judge whether the strings are the same, and if so, return `true` directly. Then define two pointers `i` and `k` as pointers for traversing the `name` and `typed` strings, then define `n` as the length of the `name` string, and then define a loop. Here I used `for`, but actually using `while` is better. Then get the current character and judge the characters pointed to by the two pointers. If they are different, return `false` directly. Cache the values of the two pointers, and then use `while` to ensure that the two pointers always point to the first character different from the current character. Then judge if the current character in `typed` has a quantity greater than or equal to the current character in `name`, according to the requirement of the problem, the quantity of the current character value in `typed` needs to be greater than or equal to the quantity of the current character value in `name`. If it does not meet the condition, return `false` directly. Then judge whether both pointers have completed traversal. If they have not completed traversal, return `false`. Finally, if all conditions are met, return `true`.

## Daily Topic
```
https://github.com/WindrunnerMax/EveryDay
```

## Reference
```
https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/long-pressed-name/
```