# Prototype Pattern
The prototype pattern `Prototype Pattern` uses a prototype instance to point to the class that creates objects, and is used to share prototype properties and methods of classes that create new objects.

## Description
In `JavaScript`, its unique prototype inheritance feature can be used to create objects, that is, creating an object as the value of the `prototype` property of another object. The prototype object effectively utilizes the objects created by each constructor, extracting common properties and methods between instances into shared properties and methods, which can be shared by instances.    
In `Java`, it is usually used to specify the type of object to be created by the prototype instance, and new objects are created by copying these prototypes. Specifically, it involves implementing the `Cloneable` interface in an abstract class and overriding the `clone` method in the `Object` class. Then, subclasses can inherit this abstract class and use a collection class such as `HashTable` to store in a cache class. When a class is needed, it can be found in the `HashTable` and a new subclass can be obtained through `clone` using the prototype pattern to create objects is much more efficient than directly using the `new` keyword, because the `clone` method of the `Object` class is a native method that directly operates on the binary stream in memory. The performance difference is particularly noticeable when copying large objects. Another benefit of using the prototype pattern is to simplify the creation of objects, making it as simple as copying and pasting when editing a document. Therefore, when there is a need to repeatedly create similar objects, the prototype pattern can be considered. In addition, in the context of deep copy and shallow copy issues, deep copy occurs with `8` basic types in `Java` and their wrapper types as well as the `String` type, while everything else is shallow copy.

### Advantages
* Improved performance.
* Avoids the constraints of constructors.

### Disadvantages
* All the functionality of all classes need to be considered in the prototype.
* The creation of objects does not invoke the class's constructor.

## Implementation

```javascript
var Shape = {
    name : null,
    say: function(){
        console.log(this.name);
    }
}

var rectangle = Object.create(Shape);
rectangle.name = "Rectangle";
rectangle.say(); // Rectangle

var square = Object.create(Shape);
square.name = "Square";
square.say(); // Square

var circle = Object.create(Shape);
circle.name = "Circle";
circle.say(); // Circle
```

## Every Day a Question

```
https://github.com/WindrunnerMax/EveryDay
```

## References

```
https://segmentfault.com/a/1190000012427846
https://www.runoob.com/design-pattern/prototype-pattern.html
https://wiki.jikexueyuan.com/project/java-design-pattern/prototype-pattern.html
```