# Proxy Pattern

The Proxy Pattern provides a surrogate or placeholder for another object to control access to it. It is a structural design pattern.

## Description
In some cases, it is undesirable or not possible to reference an object directly. In such instances, an intermediary known as a proxy can be used to achieve indirect referencing. The proxy object can act as a mediator between the client and the target object, and can filter out content and services that the client cannot see or add additional services that the client requires. Introducing a new object to manipulate the operations of the real object or to act as a stand-in for the real object constitutes the implementation mechanism of the proxy pattern.

### Pattern Structure
* `Subject`: Abstract Subject role.
* `Proxy`: Proxy Subject role.
* `RealSubject`: Real Subject role.

### Advantages
* The proxy pattern can coordinate the caller and the called party, thereby reducing the coupling of the system to a certain extent.
* Remote proxies enable clients to access objects on a remote machine, which may have better computational performance and processing speed, allowing for quick response and handling of client requests.
* Virtual proxies can reduce system resource consumption by using a small object to represent a large object, optimizing the system and improving runtime speed.
* Protecting proxies can control access permissions to the real object.

### Disadvantages
* Introducing a proxy object between the client and the real subject may cause a slowdown in request processing for certain types of proxy patterns.
* Implementing the proxy pattern requires additional work, and some implementations of proxy patterns can be quite complex.

### Application Scenarios
* Remote Proxy: Provides a local proxy object for an object located in a different address space, which could be within the same host or on another host. A remote proxy is also known as an ambassador.
* Virtual Proxy: If there is a need to create an object with high resource consumption, a relatively small object is created to represent it, and the real object is only created when needed.
* Copy-on-Write Proxy: This is a type of virtual proxy that defers the copying operation until it is actually needed by the client. Generally, deep cloning of objects is a costly operation, and the copy-on-write proxy can delay this operation until the object is actually used.
* Protect or Access Proxy: Controls access to an object and can provide different levels of access permissions to different users.
* Cache Proxy: Provides temporary storage space for the result of a specific operation, allowing multiple clients to share these results.
* Firewall Proxy: Protects the target from malicious users.
* Synchronization Proxy: Allows several users to use an object simultaneously without conflicts.
* Smart Reference Proxy: Provides additional operations when an object is referenced, such as recording the number of times this object is called.

## Implementation

```javascript
class Subject{
    constructor(){
        this.name = null;
        this.__id = null;
    }
    say(){
        throw new Error("Abstract method cannot be called");
    }
}

class RealSubject extends Subject{
    constructor(){
        super();
        this.name = "real subject";
        this.__id = 1;
    }
    say(){
        console.log(this.name);
    }
}

class SubjectProxy{
    constructor(){
        this.instance = new RealSubject;
    }

    say(){
        this.instance.say();
    }

    getProperty(key){
        if(/^_{1,2}.*$/.test(key)) throw new Error("Properties beginning with _ or __ are not allowed to be accessed");
        return this.instance[key];
    }
}

(function() {
    var subject = new SubjectProxy();
    subject.say(); // real subject
    console.log(subject.getProperty("name")); // real subject
    // console.log(subject.getProperty("__id")); // Uncaught Error: Properties beginning with _ or __ are not allowed to be accessed
})();
```

## Question of the Day
[EveryDay](https://github.com/WindrunnerMax/EveryDay)

## References

```markdown
[Here](https://juejin.im/post/6844903555036364814)
[Here](https://www.runoob.com/design-pattern/proxy-pattern.html)
[Here](https://design-patterns.readthedocs.io/zh_CN/latest/creational_patterns/singleton.html)
```