# First Look at Rich Text: Overview of Rich Text

Rich text editors usually refer to products that can edit text, images, etc., and have the ability to see what you get. For tags like `Input` and `Textarea`, they support content editing, but they do not support features like formatted text or inserting images, so a rich text editor is required to meet these needs. Nowadays, rich text editors are not limited to just text and images; they also include more complex functions such as videos, tables, code blocks, mind maps, attachments, formulas, and formatting brushes.

## Description
Rich text editors are actually a very deep field and are very difficult to implement. For example, how to handle the cursor, how to handle selections, and so on. Of course, with the help of the browser's capabilities, we can relatively easily implement similar functions, but this may lead to over-reliance on the browser and compatibility issues. In addition, there is a very strong competitor called `Word`. When a product proposes a requirement that is modeled after `Word`, it becomes a big challenge because the capabilities supported by `Word` are extremely powerful. The large installation package is not without reason; it has handled a huge amount of rich text related cases internally.

Of course, what we are describing here is rich text implemented in the browser. It is not feasible to implement `Word`-like functionality in the browser with just a few hundred KB or a few MB. Although implementing rich text editing capabilities in the browser is not easy, for us developers, we may prefer to use `Markdown` to complete the writing of relevant documents. Of course, this does not fall within the scope of rich text editors, as `Markdown` files are plain text files with the main focus on rendering. If you want to expand syntax or even embed `React` components in `Markdown`, you can refer to the `markdown-it` and `mdx` projects.

## Evolutionary Journey
Web-based rich text editors are constantly evolving. Throughout the development process, they have encountered many difficulties, which has led to the developmental process being divided into three stages: `L0`, `L1`, and `L2`. Of course, there is no good or bad here, only suitable or unsuitable. Usually, `L1` editors already meet the needs of the vast majority of rich text editing scenarios, and there are many out-of-the-box rich text editors to choose from. The specific selection depends on the requirements.

| Type | Features | Products | Advantages  | Disadvantages |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `L0` | 1. Rich text editing based on `contenteditable` provided by the browser. <br> 2. Executing commands using the browser's `document.execCommand`. | Early lightweight editors.  | Quickly complete development in a short period of time. |  Very limited customization space. | 
| `L1` |  1. Rich text editing based on `contenteditable` provided by the browser. <br> 2. Data-driven, with custom data models and command execution. | Shimo Document, Feishu Document. | Meets the vast majority of usage scenarios. | Unable to overcome the browser's own typesetting effects. |
| `L2` | 1. Self-implemented typesetting engine. <br> 2. Only relies on a small amount of browser `API`. | Google Docs, Tencent Document. | Completely control typesetting by themselves. | Technically very challenging.  |

### L0
Earlier, the development of current editors was classified into three stages: `L0`, `L1`, and `L2`. Some have even further divided the `L0` stage into two stages, making a total of four stages. However, since these two stages are completely dependent on the implementation of `contenteditable` and `document.execCommand`, they are all grouped together under `L0`.

Before the appearance of rich text editors, web browsers already had the capability to display rich text content through styling with `HTML` and `CSS`, but for user input, the `<textarea />` and `<input />` provided by the browser only allowed users to input plain text content, with very limited capabilities. Later, the appearance of `contenteditable` gave nodes the ability to edit their `HTML` structure, allowing us to directly edit rich text areas without needing to use `<textarea />` or `<input />` for input. Below is the simplest implementation of a text editor; just copy the code below into the browser's address bar to have a simple text editor. At this point, the only thing missing to have a rich text editor is the execution of `document.execCommand`, where the main work is similar to completing a toolbar to execute commands and convert the format of selected text to another format.

```html
data:text/html, <div contenteditable="true"></div>
```

Those who have dealt with text copy functionality should be familiar with the command `document.execCommand("copy")`, which is a fallback solution when `navigator.clipboard` is not available. [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-CN/docs/Web/API/Document/execCommand) lists all the commands supported by `document.execCommand`, showing that it supports parameters such as `bold` and `heading`. We can use a combination of `contenteditable` and these parameters to implement a simple rich text editor.

Of course, if we need to combine command execution, we can't simply implement it with just one line of code. Here, using bold as an example, let's complete a `DEMO`.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>L0</title>
</head>
<body>
    <div contenteditable style="border: 1px solid #aaa;">Test text bold<br>Select the text and click the bold button below to make it bold.</div>
    <button onclick="document.execCommand('bold')" style="margin-top: 10px;">Bold</button>
</body>
</html>
```
### L1
The approach of using `document.execCommand` to modify the `HTML` is simple, but its controllability is obviously poor. For example, when implementing the bold function, we cannot control whether to use `<b></b>` or `<strong></strong>` to achieve the bold effect. There are also browser compatibility issues; for example, in `IE`, `<strong></strong>` is used for bold, while in `Chrome`, it is `<b></b>`. Additionally, `IE` and `Safari` do not support implementing heading commands through `execCommand`. `document.execCommand` can only achieve relatively simple formatting, and it cannot handle more complex functions like images, code blocks, etc.

For greater extensibility and to resolve the issue of data and view mismatch, the rich text editor in `L1` uses the concept of a custom data model. This model is a data structure derived from the `DOM` tree, ensuring that the same data structure guarantees consistent rendering of `HTML`. By controlling the data model directly with custom commands, the final rendering of the `HTML` document is ensured to be consistent. In simple terms, it constructs a data model that describes the document structure and content, and uses custom `execCommand` to modify the data model. Similar to the `MVVM` model, when a command is executed, the current model is modified, reflecting the rendering in the view.

The rich text editor in `L1` addresses the issues of dirty data and the difficulty in implementing complex functions in rich text. Through data-driven development, it can better meet the needs of customized features, cross-platform parsing, online collaboration, and so on. Here, a `L1` rich text `DEMO` based on `slate` has been implemented, [GitHub](https://github.com/WindrunnerMax/DocEditor) ｜ [Editor DEMO](https://windrunnermax.github.io/DocEditor/).

### L2
In reality, `L1` already meets the needs of most scenarios. Only when there is a deep need for customization of layout and cursor would it be necessary to consider using `L2` customization. However, in most cases, my suggestion is to re-evaluate the requirements. 

Regarding the need for customized layout and cursor, let's take an example: many users who are familiar with `Word` might have noticed that if we write text that perfectly fills a line and then add a period, the preceding words will be slightly adjusted to accommodate the period, allowing it to remain on the same line. However, if we add another character, it will cause a line break. This kind of text layout is not achievable in browser rendering. Therefore, in order to overcome the limitations of browser rendering, custom layout capabilities need to be implemented.

Users who have used `CodeMirror5` might have noticed that in the default configuration of `CodeMirror`, except for the layout capabilities, all other aspects have their own implementation. For example, the cursor position is simulated using a `div`, input is managed through a `Textarea` with a following cursor, text selection is covered by a `div`, and the scrollbar is also custom implemented. This definitely has the vibe of `L2`. However, it's not fully `L2` because it still relies on the browser for text layout and cursor positioning using `Range`. Yet, such a nearly fully self-implemented solution is already quite challenging.

Fully implementing `L2` capabilities is no less difficult than developing a browser from scratch because it requires supporting various layout capabilities of browsers, making it highly complex. Moreover, there is a significant performance overhead in this area. Creating a layout engine from scratch involves constantly calculating the position of each character, which is a considerable computational task. If the performance is poor, it can lead to rendering lag during layout, resulting in a very poor user experience. The mainstream `L2` rich text editors currently rely on `Canvas` to draw all content. Since `Canvas` is just a drawing board, all aspects such as layout, selection, cursor, etc., need to be calculated and implemented from scratch. Due to the large amount of calculations, much of the computational workload is often offloaded to `Web Workers` to improve performance through data communication using `postMessage`.

Similar to a game character breaking through a bottleneck period, the transition from `L0` to `L1` in a rich text editor involved the extraction of a custom data model, while the transition from `L1` to `L2` involved the development of a custom layout engine.

## Core Concepts
The core concepts here mainly refer to some universal concepts in the `L1` rich text editor. Because in `L1`, the editor usually maintains its own set of data structures and rendering schemes, there will generally be a self-built model system, such as `Quill`'s `Parchment`, `Blot`, `Delta`, and so on, as well as `Slate`'s `Transforms`, `Normalizing`, `DOM DATA MODEL`, and so on. However, as long as it relies on the implementation of the browser and `contenteditable`, it cannot do without some basic concepts.

### Selection
The `Selection` object represents the text range selected by the user or the current position of the insertion point, representing the text selection on the page, which may span multiple elements and is generated by the user dragging the mouse over the text. When the `Selection` is in a `Collapsed` state, it is what is commonly referred to as a cursor, which means that the cursor is actually a special state of `Selection`. In addition, it is important to note that there is no necessary connection with the `focus` event or values like `document.activeElement`.

Because it's still running in the browser, implementing a rich text editor still needs to rely on changes in this selection area. Usually, when the selected text content changes, the `SelectionChange` event will be triggered, and some operations can be completed through the callback of this event.

```js
window.getSelection();
// {
//   anchorNode: text,
//   anchorOffset: 0,
//   baseNode: text,
//   baseOffset: 0,
//   extentNode: text,
//   extentOffset: 3,
//   focusNode: text,
//   focusOffset: 3,
//   isCollapsed: false,
//   rangeCount: 1,
//   type: "Range",
// }
```

In the editor, the selection area is usually not directly used to perform the desired operations. For example, in `Quill`, the selection is represented by the starting position and length, which is mainly to match its `Delta` to describe the document model, so in `Quill`, the operation from `Selection` selection area to `Delta` selection area is completed in this way, in order to obtain a selection of `Delta` that we can manipulate.

```js
quill.getSelection()
// {index: 0, length: 3}
```

In `Slate`, many concepts from the `DOM` are used, such as `Void Element`, `Selection`, and so on. In `Slate`, the selection area is also processed, and it is also because its data structure is a `JSON` data type similar to the `DOM MODEL` structure, so its `Point` is represented by `Path + Offset`, and its selection area is therefore composed of two `Points`. In addition, compared to `Quill`, `Slate` retains the order of the user's selection from left to right or from right to left, which means that selecting the same area from left to right and from right to left is different, specifically, the `anchor` and `focus` are reversed.

```js
slate.selection
// {
//   anchor: {
//     offset: 0,
//     path: [0, 0],
//   },
//   focus: {
//     offset: 3,    // text offset
//     path: [0, 0], // text node
//   },
// };
```

### Range
Whether based on `contenteditable` or beyond `contenteditable`, editors will have the concept of `Range`. Translated into English, `Range` means range or extent, similar to the concept of intervals in mathematics, that is, `Range` refers to a content range. In fact, the `Selection` in the browser is composed of `Range`, and we can use `selection.getRangeAt` to obtain the `Range` object of the current selection.

Specifically, the `Range` provided by the browser is used to describe a continuous range in the `DOM` tree. `startContainer` and `startOffset` are used to describe the start of the `Range`, while `endContainer` and `endOffset` describe the end of the `Range`. When the start and end of a `Range` are at the same position, the `Range` is in a `Collapsed` state, which is our common cursor state. In fact, `Selection` is a way to represent `Range`, and `Selection` is usually read-only, but the constructed `Range` object can be manipulated. By combining the `Selection` object and the `Range` object, we can complete some operations on the selection, such as adding or canceling the current selection.

```js
const selection = document.getSelection();
const range = document.createRange();
range.setStart(node, 0); // text node offset
range.setEnd(node, 1); // text node offset
selection.removeAllRanges();
selection.addRange(range);
```


### Copy & Paste
Copying and pasting is a quite fundamental concept because in current rich text editors, we typically maintain a highly customized `DOM` structure. For example, when using a top-level heading, we may not use the `H1` tag but instead replicate it using a `div` to avoid problems associated with nesting `H1`. However, this approach can lead to other issues.  

Firstly, for copying, we want the copied `text/html` nodes to adhere to standards; a top-level heading should be represented using `H1`. Since we maintain our own data structure and have control over the `text/html` generation, particularly in `L2` editors where there isn't even a `DOM` structure, we have to implement copying ourselves. As for pasting, we are more concerned because the current data model is usually maintained by us. Therefore, when we copy rich text from elsewhere, we need to parse it into a data structure that can be used by us, such as `Quill`'s `Delta` model or `Slate`'s `JSON DOM` model. Thus, for the copy and paste behavior, we also need to intervene and prevent the default behavior.

For the copy behavior, we can get the current selection's content during copying, serialize it, concatenate the `HTML` string, and then, if possible, use the `navigator.clipboard` and `window.ClipboardItem` objects to directly construct a `Blob` for writing. If not supported, we can fallback by using the `setData` method of the `clipboardData` object of the `onCopy` event to set it to the clipboard. If it still cannot be completed, we simply write in `text/plain` and not in `text/html`; there are many fallback strategies.

```js
// slate example // serializing
const editor = {
  children: [
    {
      type: 'paragraph',
      children: [
        { text: 'An opening paragraph with a ' },
        {
          type: 'link',
          url: 'https://example.com',
          children: [{ text: 'link' }],
        },
        { text: ' in it.' },
      ],
    },
    {
      type: 'quote',
      children: [{ text: 'A wise quote.' }],
    },
    {
      type: 'paragraph',
      children: [{ text: 'A closing paragraph!' }],
    },
  ],
}

// ===>

// <p>An opening paragraph with a <a href="https://example.com">link</a> in it.</p>
// <blockquote><p>A wise quote.</p></blockquote>
// <p>A closing paragraph!</p>
```

As for the paste behavior, we need to listen to the `onPaste` event and use `event.clipboardData.getData("text/html")` to obtain the pasted `text/html` string. Of course, if it's not available, then getting the `text/plain` would suffice. If neither is available, it's as if we pasted loneliness. If there is a `text/html` string, we can utilize `DOMParser` to parse the string and then construct the data structure we need.

```html
<!-- slate example --> <!-- deserializing -->
<p>An opening paragraph with a <a href="https://example.com">link</a> in it.</p>
<blockquote><p>A wise quote.</p></blockquote>
<p>A closing paragraph!</p>

<!-- ===> -->


```javascript
const fragment = [
  {
    type: 'paragraph',
    children: [
      { text: 'An opening paragraph with a ' },
      {
        type: 'link',
        url: 'https://example.com',
        children: [{ text: 'link' }],
      },
      { text: ' in it.' },
    ],
  },
  {
    type: 'quote',
    children: [
      {
        type: 'paragraph',
        children: [{ text: 'A wise quote.' }],
      },
    ],
  },
  {
    type: 'paragraph',
    children: [{ text: 'A closing paragraph!' }],
  },
]
```

### History
`History`, also known as `Undo/Redo` operation, has two implementation methods: recording data and recording actions.

The operation of recording data is similar to saving snapshots. When the user performs an operation, regardless of any changes, the entire content is saved and a linear stack is maintained. When performing the `Undo/Redo` operation, the content to be restored from the stack is completely presented. This operation is similar to trading space for time. We don't have to consider exactly which data the user has changed, we just record all possible changed parts when there is a change. This approach is relatively simple to implement, but if the data volume is large, it consumes a lot of memory.

Recording actions saves the actual operations, including specific operation actions and the data modified by the actions, also maintaining a linear stack. When performing the `Undo/Redo` operation, the saved actions are reversed. This method is similar to trading time for space. Each time, only the type of user operation and the related operation data need to be recorded, without storing the entire content, saving space. However, the complexity is increased significantly. Since rich text operations are actually implemented through commands, we can completely store these contents, and maintaining a method of saving operation records is more in line with the current design. Additionally, a well-designed implementation of this part will be very helpful for implementing collaborative algorithms such as `Operational Transform`.

## Daily Question

```
https://github.com/WindrunnerMax/EveryDay
```

## References

```
https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/90931631
https://www.zhihu.com/question/38699645
https://www.zhihu.com/question/404836496
https://juejin.cn/post/7114547099739357214
https://juejin.cn/post/6844903555900375048
https://juejin.cn/post/6955335319566680077
https://segmentfault.com/a/1190000040289187
https://segmentfault.com/a/1190000041457245
https://codechina.gitcode.host/programmer/application-architecture/7-youdao-note.html
```
