# Controlled Components and Uncontrolled Components

The concept of controlled and uncontrolled components in `React` is in relation to forms. In `React`, form elements typically hold their own internal state, so their functionality differs from other `HTML` elements. The different ways to obtain the internal state of form elements give rise to controlled and uncontrolled components.

## Controlled Components
In `HTML` form elements, they usually maintain their own `state` and update the `UI` as the user inputs. This behavior is not controlled by our program. However, by establishing a dependency between the `state` property in `React` and the value of form elements, and then updating the `state` property through the `onChange` event paired with `setState()`, we can control the operations that occur in the form during user input. In `React`, form input elements controlled in this way are called controlled components.  
When defining an `input` box in `React`, it does not have the bidirectional binding feature seen in `Vue` with `v-model`. This means that there is no directive that can combine data with the input box and synchronize the data as the user inputs content into the input box.

```
class Input extends React.Component {
  render () {
    return <input name="username" />
  }
}
```

When a user inputs content into the input box on the interface, it maintains its own `state`. This `state` is not the same as the usual `this.state` we see. Instead, it is an abstract `state` on each form element. This enables it to update the `UI` according to user input. If we want to control the content of the input box, and the content of the input box depends on the `value` property in the `input`, we can define a property named `username` in `this.state` and specify the `value` on the input as this property.

```
class Input extends React.Component {
  constructor (props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = { username: "1" };
  }
  render () {
    return <input name="username" value={this.state.username} />
  }
}
```
However, you will notice that the `input` content is read-only at this point because the `value` is controlled by `this.state.username`. When the user inputs new content, `this.state.username` does not automatically update. As a result, the content inside the input does not change. At this point, the console usually throws a warning.

```
Warning: You provided a `value` prop to a form field without an `onChange` handler. This will render a read-only field. If the field should be mutable use `defaultValue`. Otherwise, set either `onChange` or `readOnly`.
```
This warning actually provides the solution to this problem. We just need to listen to the input content changes with the `onChange` event of the component and update `this.state.username` using `setState`. This way, in the current component, we can control the value of this form element, which is a controlled component.

```
class Input extends React.Component {
  constructor (props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = { username: "1" };
  }
  render () {
    return (
      <>
        <input name="username" value={this.state.username} 
          onChange={e => this.setState({username: e.target.value})} 
        />
        <button onClick={() => console.log(this.state.username)} >Log</button>
      </>
    )
  }
}
```

It's also important to note that although this component is a controlled component, there are drawbacks if it is used as a shared component for invocation. Even though the `Input` component itself is a controlled component, the calling side loses the control to change the value of the `Input` component. Therefore, for the calling side, the `Input` component becomes an uncontrolled component. Using an uncontrolled component's usage pattern to call a controlled component is an anti-pattern. Examples below will be written in `Hooks`.

```javascript
// Component Provider
function Input({ defaultValue }) {
  const [value, setValue] = React.useState(defaultValue)
  return <input value={value} onChange={e => setValue(e.target.value)} />
}

// Caller
function UseInput() {
  return <Input defaultValue={1} />
}
```

If the component provider or the caller need the `Input` component to be a controlled component, the provider just needs to give up control.

```javascript
// Component Provider
function Input({ value, onChange }) {
  return <input value={value} onChange={onChange} />
}

// Caller
function UseInput() {
  const [value, setValue] = React.useState(1);
  return <Input value={value} onChange={e => setValue(e.target.value)} />
}
```


## Uncontrolled Components
If a form element does not go through `state` but is modified through `ref` or directly manipulating the `DOM`, then its data cannot be controlled through `state`, and this is what we call an uncontrolled component.

```javascript
class Input extends React.Component {
  constructor (props) {
    super(props);
    this.input = React.createRef();
  }
  render () {
    return (
      <>
        <input name="username" ref={this.input} />
        <button onClick={() => console.log(this.input.current.value)} >Log</button>
      </>
    )
  }
}
```

## Summary

### Controlled Components
* Whenever the form's state changes, it will be written to the component's `state`.
* In a controlled component, the rendered state of the component corresponds to its `value` or `checked prop`.
* Updating the `state` of a `react` controlled component:
    * By setting the default value of the form in the initial `state`.
    * Whenever the form's value changes, the `onChange` event handler is called.
    * The event handler obtains the changed status through the synthetic object `event` and updates the application's `state`.
    * `SetState` triggers the view to re-render, completing the update of the form component value.

### Uncontrolled Components
* If a form component does not have a `value prop`, it can be termed as an uncontrolled component.
* Uncontrolled components are an anti-pattern, as their values are not controlled by the component's own `state` or `props`.
* Typically, a `ref prop` needs to be added to access the rendered underlying `DOM` element.
* You can specify the `value` by adding `defaultValue`.

## Daily Question

```
https://github.com/WindrunnerMax/EveryDay
```

## References

```
https://muyunyun.cn/posts/8bdf2cdf/
https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/89223413
https://juejin.cn/post/6844904154133954568
https://juejin.cn/post/6858276396968951822
https://segmentfault.com/a/1190000022925043
https://segmentfault.com/a/1190000012458996
https://zh-hans.reactjs.org/docs/glossary.html
```
