# Stateful and Stateless Components

Components are self-sustaining, independent micro-entities that describe a part of the UI and can break down the UI of the application into smaller components, each with its own code, structure, and API. In simple terms, components allow you to split the UI into independently reusable code snippets and think about each snippet independently.

## Description
In React, components are mainly divided into two categories based on their state: stateless components and stateful components. Generally, components created using the `class` keyword, with their own private data `this.state` and lifecycle functions, are stateful components, while components created using `function` with only `props` and without their own private data and lifecycle functions are stateless components.

### Stateless Components
A stateless component, also known as a `Stateless Component`, is the most basic form of component, as it is purely for static display without the influence of state. Typically, it is the first category of components developed in various UI libraries, such as buttons, labels, input boxes, and so on. Its basic structure consists of properties `props` and event function calls. Due to the absence of state updates, this type of component has the strongest reusability. Since stateless components do not have their own `state` and lifecycle functions, they exhibit high runtime efficiency.

* Solely responsible for rendering `DOM` by accepting `props`.
* Unable to access lifecycle methods.
* Does not need to declare a class, thereby avoiding `extends` or `constructor`-like code, making the syntax more concise.
* Not instantiated, hence cannot directly pass a `ref`, but can use `React.forwardRef` to wrap and then pass a `ref`.
* Does not need to explicitly declare the `this` keyword. In class declarations of `ES6`, functions often need to bind the `this` keyword to the current scope, but due to the nature of functional declaration, this is no longer necessary.
* Better performance, as functional components do not need to manage lifecycles and states. Therefore, `React` does not need to perform specific checks or memory allocations, ensuring better performance.

In essence, if a component does not need to manage `state` and only serves for pure display, it can be defined as a stateless component.
```javascript
function Hello(props) { 
    return (
        <div>Hello {props.name}</div>
    )
} 
```

For such stateless components, using a functional declaration makes the code more readable and greatly reduces the amount of code. Using arrow functions can make the code more concise.
```javascript
const Todo = (props) => ( 
    <div onClick={props.onClick}>{props.text}</div> 
)
```

### Stateful Components
A stateful component, also known as a `Stateful Component`, is built on the foundation of stateless components. When a component internally contains a `state` that changes with events or external messages, it becomes a stateful component. Stateful components usually have lifecycles to trigger state updates at different times. This type of component is commonly used in writing business logic, and the number of component states and the lifecycle mechanism vary depending on different business scenarios.

```javascript
class Hello extends React.Component{
  constructor(props){
    super(props);
    this.state = { 
      tips: "Hello World!"
    }
  }
  componentDidMount() {
    console.log("ComponentDidMount", this);
  }
  componentWillUnmount() {
    console.log("ComponentWillUnmount", this);
  }
  render() {
    return (
      <div>{this.state.tips}</div>
    );
  }
}
```

## Daily Question

```
https://github.com/WindrunnerMax/EveryDay
```

## References

```
https://www.jianshu.com/p/63569386befc
https://juejin.cn/post/6844903597147160584
https://juejin.cn/post/6844903493816303624
https://blog.csdn.net/cunjie3951/article/details/106919202
https://blog.csdn.net/weixin_30819085/article/details/99989723
https://setcina.github.io/2019/03/07/react%E6%9C%89%E7%8A%B6%E6%80%81%E7%BB%84%E4%BB%B6%E5%92%8C%E6%97%A0%E7%8A%B6%E6%80%81%E7%BB%84%E4%BB%B6%E7%9A%84%E5%8C%BA%E5%88%AB/
```